## Why is this needed?

This library provides a fast, simple way of checking whether a value is a number, whether defined as a string or number by the user. 

It's easy to check for a number in JavaScript, all we need to do is `typeof value === 'number'`. But sometimes that's not enough. For example, `typeof NaN` returns `number`, and there are many use cases where it's possible or necessary for a numerical value to be defined as a string, like in parsers or regex matches where it's not possible for the value to be defined as a number.

## Usage

To understand some of the rationale behind the decisions made in this library (and to learn about some oddities of number evaluation in JavaScript), [see this gist][gist]. 

```js
const isNumber = require('{%= name %}');
```

### true

See the [tests](./test.js) for more examples.

```js
isNumber(5e3);               // true
isNumber(0xff);              // true
isNumber(-1.1);              // true
isNumber(0);                 // true
isNumber(1);                 // true
isNumber(1.1);               // true
isNumber(10);                // true
isNumber(10.10);             // true
isNumber(100);               // true
isNumber('-1.1');            // true
isNumber('0');               // true
isNumber('012');             // true
isNumber('0xff');            // true
isNumber('1');               // true
isNumber('1.1');             // true
isNumber('10');              // true
isNumber('10.10');           // true
isNumber('100');             // true
isNumber('5e3');             // true
isNumber(parseInt('012'));   // true
isNumber(parseFloat('012')); // true
```

### False

See the [tests](./test.js) for more examples.

```js
isNumber('foo');             // false
isNumber([1]);               // false
isNumber([]);                // false
isNumber(function () {});    // false
isNumber(Infinity);          // false
isNumber(NaN);               // false
isNumber(new Buffer('abc')); // false
isNumber(null);              // false
isNumber(undefined);         // false
isNumber({abc: 'abc'});      // false
```

## Release history

### 6.0.0

- optimizations, thanks to @benaadams.

### 5.0.0

**Breaking changes**

- removed support for `instanceof Number` and `instanceof String`


[infinity]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinity
[gist]: https://gist.github.com/jonschlinkert/e30c70c713da325d0e81
